## Conclusion
{:#conclusion}

In this article, we introduced decoupled Web forms considered as three parts by creating a Declarative Form Description Pipeline (DFDP).
The implementations of the FormRenderer and FormCli prove that the display part is loosely coupled to the rendering environment.
The FormGenerator shows how such declarative form descriptions can be produced.
This enables the developer to use the same description for multiple viewing environments.
We also provide them with tools they can build further upon to learn how to do so.

<span class="comment" data-author="RT">
The following two paragraphs will miss their goal I suspect.
I propose two focus on developers in a first paragraph, and researchers in the second paragraph.
For developers, really put yourself in the shoes of the developer, and talk about what this resource will change for them.
So no need to talk about specific technologies such as SHACL, but explain how it will change and improve their workflow, perhaps even with an example.
Then, for researchers, you can do the same. I see this as two-fold: on the one hand, researchers could directly make use of your research.
On the other hand, this resource could serve as a driver for other types of research (for example the entity extraction stuff!).
I would certainly aim to give some examples here. One could be that research that involve user studies (like your own!) will benefit from this resource, and you can explain how (future research could for example reuse and build upon user study forms from prior work!).
</span>

Developers and researchers can use the FormRenderer tool to insert data into a defined shape outlined in the form description, thus minimizing
the risk of data entry errors since users are only responsible for inputting raw data into the app's interface.

By using the DFDP, form developers can build new forms faster by reusing existing forms rather than starting from scratch.
Additionally, by extending upon existing display ontologies such as Solid-UI and SHACL, there is no need for developers adopting the DFDP to start over again.
They can reuse existing form descriptions and extend it with footprint tasks, rather making it an extra step to more possibilities.
To help developers perform this extra step, they can reuse the code as part of this research to execute the policies.
This allows them to quickly start performing user defined actions on filled in data.

<span class="comment" data-author="RT">The following paragraph sounds like a repetition of your introduction. I think it's ok to repeat IMO, but I'd make it more concise.</span>
Schema alignment enables developers to use data in their app written in any ontology that is semantically equivalent to its vocabulary.
As a result, it is now easier for developers to use existing data of other apps.
Form renderer developers can use the form descriptions generated by third-party form generators as everything down to the expected actions is described in that description.
Additionally, this also means that these developers can reuse form descriptions that users are using with other form renderers.
The DFDP makes it easier for developers and researchers to substitute one app in the pipeline with another without the need to also reimplement the other app.
Furthermore, existing form descriptions can still be used, making it easier for end-users to switch apps and adopt new versions, and for developers to publish new apps.
Researchers can more easily build upon existing apps to extend them with new technologies in their future research.

Such future research could focus on automatically suggesting bindings based on field names entered by the users, which can build on [_Entity Extraction_](cite:cites exner2012entity).
Other directions for future work may involve streamlining the schema alignment and footprint tasks to make them more abstract for developers.
Embedding schema alignment as a layer between the app and the data would enable developers to automatically consider semantically equivalent ontologies as the same, resulting in real interoperability without requiring extra work from the developers.

<span class="comment" data-author="RT">Can we end here with a perspectives-sentence (or two)? For example, something along the lines of: "In general, declarative and decoupled Web forms will lead to a more decentralized Web where people are in more control over their own data."</span>
